# COMP3121 Assignment 4 Question 1

Andrew Xie, z5317337

**There are $N$ computers in a network, labelled $\{1,2,3,...,N\}$. There are $M$ one-directional links which connect pairs of computers. Computer 1 is trying to send a virus to computer $N$. This can happen as long as there is a path of links from computer 1 to computer $N$​. To prevent this, you've decided to remove some of the links from the network so that the two computers are no longer connected. For each link, you've calculated the cost of removing it. What is the minimum total cost to disconnect the computers are requires, and which edges should be removed to achieve this minimum cost?**

This problem can be modelled as a flow network, with directed edges representing links between computers (as vertices), from Computer 1 as the source to computer $N$​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ as the sink. The capacity of an edge between two nodes represents the cost of removing the link between the two computers. Since cuts separate the source from the sink into two disjoint sets, we want to find a cut in the flow network with the minimal capacity across the cut, in order to minimise the cost of disconnecting the two computers. The max-flow min-cut theorem states that the maximal amount of flow in a flow network is equal to the capacity of the cut of minimal capacity. This means that the minimum total cost for disconnecting the two computers is equal to the maximal amount of flow in the flow network, which can be found using the Edmonds-Karp algorithm in $O(|V||E|^2) = O(NM^2)$​​​​​​​​​​​​ time​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​. The links which should be removed from the network in the minimum cut have this value as the total capacity across the cut, and can be identified as the edges which exist in the original flow network but have been removed from the final residual graph (with the maximum flow) obtained from the Edmonds-Karp algorithm above (i.e. edges from a reachable to a non-reachable vertex). The final residual graph can be traversed in $O(|V|+|E|) = O(N+M)$​ time using breadth first search or depth first search to find the reachable vertices. Edges from both the original flow network and residual graph can then be compared in $O(|E|) = O(M)$ time. Thus, a solution to the problem can be found in $O(NM^2)$​​​​​ time. 

